--
layout: post
title: My Goals As a Developer
--

## My Goals As a Developer

What a broad topic... As of now, my ideas are just beginning to form and the
possibilities seem endless. To reference the theme in my last post, I feel
like a 15th Century Spanish sailor setting out for the new world with fresh
ideas of finding El Dorado, only I feel like I have it a bit easier because
I have seen the possibilities. I have seen the things that an individual
can achieve with a strong desire to learn and a bit of ambition. Currently the
course I'm in teaches both front and backend web development, which has proved
to be a great introduction (a word which, quite contrary to actuality, makes
it sound easy) to coding and more importantly, learning to think like a
programmer.

That being said, I'll start by laying out a couple of ideas that have really
sparked my interest. I've always considered myself somewhat of a futurist. I'm
not claiming to be Tony Stark or Elon Musk, but those are definitely my idols
in the field, and I hope to achieve similar feats of ingenuity in technology.
With idols like that, the bar which I have set for myself is high.
I determined that coming to a solid grasp of technology would start with knowing
how to talk to computers and machinery, thus my initial interest in coding.

So, here's my first idea;
I've been fascinated with space and interstellar travel since I first saw Star
Wars when I was a 7 years old. Through a bit of reading I quickly discovered that
"Lightspeed" was physically impossible, but that didn't stop me researching
various methods of rocket propulsion, and my "sci-fi research" eventually led
me to the folks working out of NASA, SpaceX, and Virgin Galactic, specifically
the people who write thousands of pages of code which control spacecraft.
Considering this career path I have determined two ways I could go;
Artificial Intelligence design (think '2001: A Space Odyssey'), or
Life Support Systems. Those are two areas which I definitely plan to explore more
in the near future.

My second idea;
I've always had the desire to help people. Growing up, my mother was disabled,
and that created the spark to learn how to help me. I taught myself the basics
of massage therapy when I was just 13 to help my mother, and throughout my life
I continued to educate myself in skills that I could use to help both family and
friends.
With the advent of modern technology, however, the possibilities seem limitless.
I could program an AI that would help forgetful elderly people to remember to
take their medicine, or accomplish daily tasks and errands, or even to converse
and socialize with the lonely. I could speed up and automate hospital duties, or
even write the code to control robotic surgeons in the future.

However far-fetched these ideas may seem, they are ones which I am passionate
about, and I believe that passion goes a long way towards achieving goals, no
matter how strange they are (just look at the lives of Isaac Newton and Albert
Einstein). 
